practical_tips

The frenetic pace of Vietnam’s cities combined with the cultural nuances of this Southeast Asian country can be a lot for travellers to take in. Yet it’s not a difficult place to navigate — as long as you do a bit of forward planning. Transport is visitor-friendly and plentiful, and locals are usually happy to help travellers get their bearings. Follow their lead, and you’ll soon catch your stride.

Is the language barrier significant?
Many Vietnamese people speak at least some English, particularly in big cities, but this becomes less so the further you get into the countryside. Due to past colonial influence, English and French are more widely spoken in the south than the north, but people who work in traveller-facing businesses are likely to speak a decent level of English. Wherever you go, locals will appreciate you making the effort to learn a few basic phrases in Vietnamese — translation apps help a lot, too.

Is the street food safe?
Joining the locals at road-side restaurants or stalls is one of the country’s great joys. The food hygiene and cleanliness of street stalls can be a worry, but most visitors don’t experience any major problems as long as they stick to some general principles. Choose stalls that are busy, which guarantees turnover of ingredients, and pick those busy with locals. Ice in drinks is usually made from bottled water (ask, if in doubt), but salads can be washed in tap water so are best avoided.

Is it safe to travel by motorbike & what are the most scenic routes?
Vietnam is magnificent motorbike touring country, but longer journeys are best left to experienced drivers. Hai Van Pass, between Da Nang and Hue, is one of the best. The four-day Ha Giang Loop in the far north of Vietnam is another highlight. It’s very easy to hire motorbikes across Vietnam, even without any paperwork, but legally you need an international driving permit. Travellers often get stopped by the police and fined (or bribed) for not having the correct documents.

In towns and cities, motorbike taxis are a common way to get around. You’ll likely be offered lifts on an ad hoc basis, but you may prefer to order a motorbike taxi through an app such as Grab, whose drivers have to provide passengers with a helmet.

Are there any cultural sensitivities I should be aware of?
Vietnamese people dress conservatively, with both men and women generally covering their shoulders and knees, often wearing long sleeves and trousers regardless of the heat. Outside of tourist resorts, men should avoid walking around topless and women should avoid revealing clothing. Shoes should always be removed before entering temples or homes and public outbursts or arguments should be avoided at all costs. Saving face is a powerful concept here, and losing your cool in public is deemed extremely embarrassing for everyone.

How to do it
Getting there & around
Vietnam Airlines operates daily nonstop flights from Heathrow to Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City.
Average flight time: 12h.

Within Vietnam, the national airline also offers daily routes connecting major cities such as Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang and Hue.

Much of the country is well connected by train, with the Reunification Express connecting Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City; Vietnam Railways also runs many smaller routes that branch off this main line. Tickets can be bought online. There’s also an extensive long-distance bus network. This is the cheapest way to get around. Tickets can be bought via Baolau.

When to go
Vietnam’s dry season generally runs from November to April, with the exception of Central Vietnam, where the dry season is January to August. In February, Hanoi sees highs of around 22C and frequent cloud, but at the same time of year, Ho Chi Minh City is largely sunny, with temperatures around 33C. The highlands are generally cooler and cloudier.

Where to stay
Hotel De Syloia, Hanoi. From 2,010,000 VND (£64), B&B.

More info
Rough Guide to Vietnam. £16.99
The Sympathizer by Viet Thanh Nguyen. £10.99

How to do it:
InsideAsia offers a 12-night ‘Vietnam Landscapes’ itinerary from £2,620 per person, travelling from Hanoi to Ho Chi Minh via Pu Luong and rural Vietnam, including accommodation, transport, guiding and some cultural experiences. Excludes flights.

This story was created with the support of InsideAsia and Vietnam Airlines.


When planning your trip, these Vietnam travel tips will help you make the most of your journey. Our insights come from both seasoned locals and experienced expatriates who understand the needs and preferences of foreign travelers. While many tips online are from people who have visited Vietnam only once or twice, or from locals who might not fully grasp the needs of international tourists, our tips offer a well-rounded perspective to ensure your trip is unforgettable.

These are the absolute best Vietnam travel tips you can find. We divided them into three categories:

Travel tips for planning your trip to Vietnam: Essential advice for choosing destinations, booking flights, and deciding on accommodations.
Vietnam travel tips: What to prepare before you go: Practical tips on visas, packing, and essential items to bring.
Travel tips while traveling in Vietnam: Insider advice on cultural etiquette, transportation, and staying safe during your trip.
Tip: Download our free eBook
Before diving into the specific tips, we recommend downloading our free ebook. This comprehensive guide is packed with over 200 pages of travel tips, including what to prepare, example routes based on the length of your stay, inspiration, destination guides, transportation advice, cultural tips, and much more. Best of all, it’s completely free.

First name(Required)
First name
Email(Required)
Email
Travel tips for planning your trip to Vietnam
Planning your trip to Vietnam can be overwhelming with so many incredible places to visit and things to do. These tips will help you plan your itinerary, get inspired on where to go, and book your flights and accommodations efficiently.

1. Don’t try to see everything
2. Best time to visit Vietnam
3. Best things to do in Vietnam based on your interest
4. Start in Ho Chi Minh City or Hanoi?
5. Booking your flights to Vietnam
6. Booking accommodations
7. Getting around Vietnam: booking domestic flights, trains and buses

1. Don’t try to see everything
One of the best Vietnam travel tips is to avoid trying to see everything in one trip. Vietnam is a vast country with countless sights and experiences. It might be tempting to fit in as much as possible, but this can make your trip feel rushed and overwhelming. The country’s winding roads, mountain passes, and slow trains mean travel times can be lengthy. Therefore, it’s best to select destinations that fit the time you have. Here’s a guide to help you plan:

1 Week: Focus on one region. We highly recommend Northern Vietnam, where you can explore Hanoi, Halong Bay, and Sapa.
2 Weeks: Either focus on one region or split between two regions. For instance, you could explore Northern Vietnam and Central Vietnam, visiting places like Hue and Hoi An along with Hanoi, Sapa and Ha Long Bay.
3 Weeks: Explore two or all three regions. A popular choice is to combine Northern and Central Vietnam.
4 Weeks: You can comfortably explore all three regions: Northern, Central, and Southern Vietnam.
2. Best time to visit Vietnam
One of the most frequently asked questions is: “What is the best time to visit Vietnam?” Understandably, weather can greatly affect the experience of your trip. Vietnam is a long country stretching from north to south, and it has different weather regions, each with its own best travel time:

North Vietnam: Best from October to April, but summer is the only time to see the rice fields in full bloom.
Central Vietnam: Best from February to August.
South Vietnam: Best from November to April.
Overall best time for whole Vietnam: February – April. If you prefer cooler weather and less humidity, visiting in the winter months might be ideal, while summer travelers can enjoy the best landscapes.

Read here our full guide about: best time to visit Vietnam.

3. Best things to do in Vietnam based on your interest
Everyone has different travel styles and interests, so there isn’t one definitive list of the best things to do in Vietnam. To help you plan your itinerary, we have created several lists based on specific interests. These lists will guide you to the destinations that suit your preferences:

Best cultural experiences in Vietnam
Unique food experiences in Vietnam
Most beautiful beaches in Vietnam
Most beautiful rice fields in Vietnam
Top adventure activities in Vietnam
Top off the beaten track destinations
Best places for trekking in Vietnam
rice fields of Sapa
Trekking through the rice fields in Sapa are great for people that love countryside, mountains and discovering the unique cultures of ethnic minority groups.
Street food tour on the back of a motorbike in Ho Chi Minh City
A street food tour on the back of a motorbike is for both people that love adventure and foodies.
4. Start in Ho Chi Minh City or Hanoi?
Choosing between starting your trip in Ho Chi Minh City or Hanoi depends on several factors, including flight costs, travel plans, and personal preferences. Here’s a breakdown to help you decide:

Flight costs and multi-destination tickets: Check for multi-destination tickets (e.g., flying into Hanoi and out of Ho Chi Minh City) and compare costs to find the cheapest option.

Why start in Ho Chi Minh City:
If you only want to visit Southern Vietnam.
Has the most flights and better connectivity.
Softer cultural landing, as the city is more Westernized.
Traveling from south to north means the scenery will get better and more rewarding as you go.
Why start in Hanoi:
If you only want to visit Northern Vietnam.
Newer and less chaotic airport with shorter queues and quicker security checks.
Tip: If booking with Local Vietnam, consider flying into Hanoi, as our expert team is based there.

5. Booking your flights to Vietnam
Vietnam doesn’t have a major flight hub, so flights often include a transit. Here are some tips:

Avoid long transits: Ensure your transits aren’t too long to avoid excessive travel fatigue.
Book in advanced: Book flights well in advance for high season; three months in advance is good for low season.
Use flight comparison websites: Compare prices from multiple airlines and booking platforms (e.g., Skyscanner, Google Flights) to find the best deals.
Price alert: Use price alerts on Skyscanner to monitor fare changes and secure the best deals.
Best time of the week: Consider booking flights on weekdays for better prices.
Be flexible with dates and times: Consider flying on weekdays or during off-peak hours for potentially lower fares.
Screenshot of Skyscanner showing price alert feature for flights from Los Angeles to Hanoi – travel tip for booking cheap flights to Vietnam
6. Booking accommodations
When it comes to travel tips for Vietnam, booking accommodations is an important aspect to consider. The right place to stay can greatly enhance your trip, while a poor choice can really make your trip less enyoable. Here are some specific tips to help you make the best choices for your Vietnam trip:

Location, location, location: Don’t book your stay outside the tourist areas just to save money. The lack of public transportation means you will spend more on taxis. Central locations in cities like Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City offer better access to attractions and dining options. In places like Sapa and Ninh Binh, choose accommodations in the countryside, preferable with stunning views, instead of staying in the main towns.

Hotel rooms with no windows: Be aware that some hotels in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City have rooms without windows. This is due to narrow, deep plots where only the rooms at the front have windows. Always check room descriptions and reviews before booking.

A hotel room without a window in Icon Saigon - LifeStyle Design Hotel in Vietnam
Stay overnight in an ethnic homestay: For a genuine local experience, consider staying in an ethnic homestay. These are basic but offer an authentic cultural experience, including family dinners and insights into local life. Since most authentic homestays are not listed online, consulting a local travel agent can help you find the best options.

a tourist woman sitting with her kid in a homestay in Sapa watching a ethnic minority woman preparing a meal on traditional ways
Book in advance for peak season: During popular travel times, especially in tourist hotspots, it’s wise to secure your accommodations early to avoid disappointment and higher prices.

7. Getting around Vietnam: booking domestic flights, trains and buses
Traveling around Vietnam can be done efficiently using domestic flights, trains, and buses. Each option has its own advantages and best use cases:

Domestic flights
Vietnam has many airports, but not all are connected directly to each other. However, most are connected to Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) and Hanoi. Domestic flights are a great alternative to long, tiring bus trips, saving you time and offering a safer travel option. Prices are very affordable, with flights starting from as low as $35. Vietnam Airlines is the best option for service and reliability, while VietJet Airways offers the best ticket deals despite its reputation for delays.

Best site to book domestic flights: Traveloka
Buses
Buses in Vietnam connect to every corner of the country, making them a super cheap option for travel. However, not everyone feels safe on buses, especially the ones that drive at night. Limousine vans are a better option as they travel during the day, are comfortable, and also inexpensive.

Best site to book buses in Vietnam: Vexere
Train travel
Trains are more expensive than buses but often cheaper than flights. They are a very safe travel option, although they only connect cities along the coast and to Sapa. The train journey is unique, as it travels through towns on old tracks, making it quite bumpy and slow.

Best sites to book trains in Vietnam: 12go.asia and Baolau
Bonus tip: Travel at night to save time
Night buses are the cheapest option, but they may not be the most comfortable or safest for everyone. Night trains are a safe alternative for overnight travel.

Vietnam travel tips: what to prepare before you go
Planning and preparation are key to ensuring a smooth and enjoyable trip to Vietnam. Here are essential tips for what to prepare before you go:

8. Apply of your e-visa as soon as possible
9. Download these apps
10. Backpack or suitcase?
11. What clothes to bring
12. Healthcare traveling tips for Vietnam
13. Bringing travel adapters
14. Get travel Insurance

8. Apply of your e-visa as soon as possible
official Vietnam e-visa website
One of the most important travel tips for Vietnam is to apply for your e-visa well in advance. We frequently receive emergency visa requests from travelers who didn’t know they needed one or forgot to apply on time. Citizens from most countries, including the US, Australia, and Canada, need to arrange a visa before traveling. Without a visa, you won’t be allowed to board your plane to Vietnam. You can apply for an e-visa on the official website of the Vietnamese immigration service. It costs $25 for a single entry and can be applied for up to 90 days in advance.

To avoid any mistakes in the application, you can read our guide how to apply for a Vietnam e-visa.

9. Download these apps
Having the right apps can make your trip to Vietnam much smoother:

Grab: The biggest ride-hailing app in Vietnam, Grab allows you to book taxis, motorbike taxis, and food delivery. It’s reliable and easy to use, providing a convenient way to get around and order meals.
TripAdvisor: This app is great for researching restaurants, hotels, and activities. It provides reviews and ratings from other travelers, helping you make informed decisions about where to eat, stay, and what to do.
XE Currency Converter: This app helps you quickly convert currencies and keep track of exchange rates. It’s especially useful for budgeting and making sure you’re getting a fair deal.
Important tip for Google Translate and Google Maps! Consider downloading offline data for Google Maps and Google Translate. This can be incredibly helpful if you find yourself without internet access.

Read here more about useful travel apps in Vietnam.

10. Backpack or suitcase?
Deciding whether to bring a backpack or a suitcase depends on your travel style and budget. Here are some considerations:

Backpack: If you’re on a tight budget, a backpack is more convenient. Sidewalks in Vietnam are often uneven and crowded with motorbikes and street vendors, making wheeled suitcases difficult to manage. A backpack allows for easier movement and flexibility, especially if you plan to travel to remote or rural areas.
Suitcase: If you have a slightly higher budget, a suitcase can be a viable option. Many bus services include hotel pick-up, and taxis are very cheap, allowing for door-to-door travel without much hassle.
11. What clothes to bring
The best travel tip for Vietnam regarding packing is not to bring too much. Remember that you’ll be carrying everything with you all the time. If you really miss something, don’t worry—Vietnam is very cheap, and you can buy clothes, jackets, and shoes here for a fraction of the price at home. While they might not always be real brands, the quality is often very good.

When packing for Vietnam, it’s best to dress in layers to accommodate the varying weather conditions:

Wear Layers: This allows you to adjust your clothing based on the weather and your activities. Layers are versatile and can be added or removed as needed.
Light Jacket: A wind/rain jacket is essential for the summer months when rain is common, and it’s also useful in the cooler winter months. Look for a jacket that is easy to fold and pack.
No Hiking Boots: Unless you plan on extensive trekking, avoid bringing heavy hiking boots. Instead, bring good walking shoes that are comfortable for various activities. Lightweight, breathable footwear is ideal for the majority of your trip.
Before you pack too many clothes, also read our tip about laundry services in Vietnam.

12. Healthcare travel tips for Vietnam
Staying healthy while traveling in Vietnam is crucial. Here are some tips:

Mosquito protection: Mosquitoes can be a nuisance in Vietnam, especially in rural and jungle areas. Use mosquito/insect spray to protect yourself. There is no need to bring your own mosquito net, as accommodations in areas with many mosquitoes usually provide them.

Vaccinations: It is recommended to get vaccinations for Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Typhoid, and Japanese Encephalitis.

Extra Tip: Best to consult your own personal doctor or health professional for advice on this matter. They can provide recommendations based on your health history and travel plans.

13. Bringing travel adapters
A key travel tip for Vietnam is to ensure you have the right travel adapters for your electronics:

Vietnam socket
Sockets used: Vietnam primarily uses Type A (two flat pins) and Type C and F (two round pins) sockets.

A few countries that do NOT need adapters: Travelers from Japan and the United States (Type A) will generally not need adapters.
Popular countries that DO need adapters: Travelers from the United Kingdom (Type G) and Australia (Type I) will need adapters to use their devices in Vietnam.
electric socket uses in Vietnam
A common socket in Vietnam that fits both 2 round pins and 2 flat pin adapters
14. Get travel insurance
Having travel insurance before your trip is essential. It provides peace of mind knowing you’re covered for various potential issues, from health emergencies to trip cancellations. Without it, even minor incidents can lead to significant expenses and stress, making your trip less enjoyable.

Motorbike coverage: If you plan to drive a motorbike in Vietnam, make sure you are covered by your insurance. Most policies require you to have a motorbike license and a valid International Driving Permit (IDP). Without these, you might not be covered in case of an accident. Verify the details of your policy to avoid any issues during your trip.
Travel tips while traveling in Vietnam
This section provides practical tips to help you navigate and enjoy your time in Vietnam. From getting connected to finding convenient services and staying safe, these tips are designed to make your travel experience smoother and more enjoyable.

15. Buying a local sim card
16. Make use of laundry services
17. Cash is king in Vietnam
18. Using coffee shops for a toilet break
19. Getting around town with taxi apps
20. These are the best buses in Vietnam
21. Tips for traveling by train in Vietnam
22. Be careful in traffic
23. Try local food and how to find the best place
24. Cultural do’s & don’ts
25. To flush or not to flush

15. Buying a local sim card
Buying a Vietnamese SIM card at the airport – travel tips for Vietnam
One of the first things you should do when arriving in Vietnam is buying a Vietnamese SIM card. It is perhaps the best Vietnam travel tip there is. With a local SIM, you have internet access everywhere and anytime during your trip. This will help you navigate, translate, research what to do, read reviews of restaurants, and keep in contact with your friends and family back home.

Additional tip: When you book a package trip with us, we provide a free Vietnamese SIM card on arrival, so you can always stay in contact with us during your trip for questions and help.

16. Make use of laundry services
Continuing from one of the the previous Vietnam travel tips about what clothes to bring, here is an even better tip! During your trip, you will use a lot of clothes. The hot weather makes you want to change clothes more often, and the same goes for activities, even in winter. You would need a huge suitcase to fit enough clothes for your entire trip. Instead, take advantage of the local laundry services.

Street sign offering laundry and SIM card services in Vietnam – Vietnam travel tips for using local laundry services
In Vietnam, you can find laundry services almost everywhere. They will wash, dry, and neatly fold your clothes for you, typically within 24 hours. They often have an express service as well. The price is less than 1 USD per kilo of laundry.

17. Cash is king in Vietnam
Vietnamese cash money
When dining at local restaurants, buying bus tickets, staying in homestays, or shopping for souvenirs, you’ll often need to pay with cash. While larger hotels and modern restaurants may accept credit cards, most local shops and restaurants do not. Therefore, make sure you always have enough cash on hand, especially if you plan to travel to the countryside where there are no ATMs.

18. Using coffee shops for a toilet break
This is another great insider Vietnam travel tip that! Public toilets are scarce in Vietnam, but this is far from a problem. No matter where you are, you can easily find a coffee shop. Especially in tourist centers, streets are filled with them. They sell drinks like coffee, tea, and fresh juices starting from 0.50 USD. For the purchase of a drink, you are welcome to use their toilet too.

19. Getting around town with taxi apps
Taxi apps are a convenient way to get around town in Vietnam. These apps allow you to book rides easily and often at lower prices than standard taxis. They also provide more security and transparency regarding fares, as you see the price upfront. Grab is the most popular app for booking taxis and motorbike taxis.

Steps to use taxi apps:

Download and install the app from the App Store or Google Play.
Register and set up your account.
Enter your pick up and drop off destinations and choose your ride type (car, motorbike, etc.).
Confirm your booking and wait for your driver.
20. These are the best buses in Vietnam
Sleeper buses:
Sleeper buses are primarily used for long distances and usually operate at night. They have reclining seats that allow you to lie down. Popular routes include Ho Chi Minh City to Dalat and Da Nang to Ninh Binh, Hanoi to Ha Giang and Hanoi to Sapa.
Night travel saves daytime for exploring and the cost of accommodation, but not everyone can sleep well on buses, and there are safety concerns. Prices for these buses are around 10-25 USD.
inside of a sleeper bus in Vietnam
Our tip: Try to avoid regular sleeper buses. If you have to use one, opt for VIP sleeper buses, which offer almost double the space and more privacy. Also, bring noise-canceling headphones.

the inside of a VIP sleeper bus in Vietnam
Limousine buses:
Limousine buses are shared vans that are more comfortable than regular buses and even cars. They are often priced between 15 to 25 USD for trips longer than five hours. These buses operate during the day and feel safer than sleeper buses at night. However, they might take up some valuable daytime if you have a busy itinerary.
the inside of a limousine van in Vietnam
21. Tips for traveling by train in Vietnam
Train travel in Vietnam is safer than bus travel, but the trains are slow due to old tracks and routes that go through towns. Here are some tips:

Pick the right class: For longer trips, always book the 4-berth sleeper cabins. There are also 6-berth and soft/hard seat options, but they are less comfortable. The 4-berth cabins offer more comfort and privacy.
Book all seats for more privacy: If you are traveling with another person, consider booking all four berths in the cabin. This way, you don’t have to share with strangers, providing more privacy and security for your luggage.
Book tourist trains: On popular routes like Hanoi to Sapa, there are tourist trains with nicer cabins and better-maintained facilities.
What to bring: Noise-canceling headphones for the noise, snacks since the options on the train are limited, and hygiene products for toilet use.
Couple in a 4-berth sleeper train cabin in Vietnam – Vietnam travel tip for booking all beds for more privacy
22. Be careful in traffic
Vietnam is a very safe country with low crime rates against foreigners. However, you need to be cautious in traffic. Here are some Vietnam travel tips regarding traffic:

When crossing the street: Make yourself visible and walk at a steady pace so that drivers can predict your movements. Never run across the street.

a man and a woman are crossing a road in Vietnam through busy traffic of motorbikes and cars
Riding a scooter: Carefully consider whether riding a scooter is right for you. If you have little experience or do not feel comfortable, it is better not to ride one yourself. Safety comes first, and there are plenty of other ways to get around without taking unnecessary risks.

a foreign woman traveler in driving a motorbike in Vietnam
23. Try local food and how to find the best place
One of the essential Vietnam travel tips is to explore the local cuisine, which is rich and diverse, reflecting the country’s culture and history. Trying local food is a highlight of any trip to Vietnam. Here are some tips to help you pick the best places to eat:

Check reviews online: Use apps like TripAdvisor or Google Reviews to find highly-rated local restaurants. Look for places with a lot of positive feedback from other travelers.
Observe the crowd: For street food, choose stalls that have a lot of locals ordering. This indicates that the food is fresh and tasty, as high turnover means the food isn’t sitting around all day.
Inspect cleanliness: Ensure that the place looks clean and the food is prepared in a hygienic manner. This can help you avoid foodborne illnesses.
Ask for recommendations: Don’t hesitate to ask locals for their favorite spots. They often know the best places that might not be listed online.
Join a food tour: A food tour with a local guide can be an excellent way to discover the best eateries and gain cultural insights. Guides can take you to hidden gems and explain the history and significance of the dishes you try.
street food tour in Hanoi
24. Cultural do’s & don’ts
Vietnamese culture is deeply rooted in traditions and customs. Respecting these can enhance your experience and interactions with locals. Here are some cultural do’s and don’ts:

Do greet with a smile and slight bow.
Do dress modestly, especially when visiting temples and pagodas.
Do remove your shoes before entering someone’s home.
Don’t take photos of people without their permission.
Don’t lose your temper in public; it’s considered very disrespectful.
Don’t show public displays of affection.
25. To flush or not to flush
Toilets in Vietnam can vary, and a common question is whether you can flush toilet paper. Here are some guidelines:

In many places, especially rural areas and older buildings, plumbing systems are not designed to handle toilet paper. Instead, there will be a bin next to the toilet for disposal.
In more modern resorts and establishments, it’s usually safe to flush toilet paper. Always check for signs or ask if you’re unsure.
Personal travel tips for Vietnam
There are so many more Vietnam travel tips we can provide. Some tips are more personalized, depending on your travel style, the time you travel, or even your individual needs. Whether you need advice on traveling with a disability, managing an allergy, navigating the rainy season, or recommendations for specific locations, we have you covered. Here’s a small overview of some of the most common personal tips people are looking for.

Traveling with allergies
Traveling with a disability
Traveling during rainy season
Traveling with kids
Traveling as a solo female traveler
Still looking for more information about something specific? Either browse our website or join our community on Facebook, where our experts are very active in answering all your questions.

Our best Vietnam travel tip
Planning a trip to Vietnam can be overwhelming with so much to take in, plan, and organize. From finding the best places to visit, booking accommodations, and connecting destinations with transfers, it can be a lot to manage. That’s where we come in. Our best Vietnam travel tip is to use our service for a stress-free travel experience.

We offer peace of mind with our extensive experience and local experts based in Vietnam. We can arrange everything for you. Just let us know your wishes, and we will tailor-make a trip completely based on your preferences. Request a free trip plan, and we will send you an itinerary within 1 or 2 days. You can still change anything, from activities and destinations to hotels, until it’s perfect.

Go to Free Trip Planning
Explore Vietnam with Local Experts
Are you looking for help planning your Vietnam trip? Let us know exactly what you need by filling in this form. We specialize in arranging small group experiences and customized private tours, ensuring you get the most authentic and personalized experience. Whether it’s a half-day tour in Hanoi, a multi-week adventure through Vietnam, or arranging a private driver, we’ve got you covered. As local experts, we take pride in crafting unforgettable journeys that cater to your interests and schedule.
Traveling in Vietnam: 12 Practical Tips and Handy Insights
Traveling through Vietnam can be best described as versatile and diverse. Bike along narrow paths through vast green rice fields, sail by boat past massive limestone rock formations, and savor Vietnamese cuisine in a bustling city like Hanoi. While in the big cities, hundreds of scooters zoom by every minute, in the Vietnamese countryside, you’ll find complete tranquility. Whichever way you go in Vietnam, you’ll encounter vibrant markets, ancient pagodas, and colorful lanterns everywhere. Traveling through Vietnam is one big adventure. Before you hop on the plane, read these 12 tips to make the most of your journey through Vietnam!



#1 Best Time to Travel to Vietnam
Vietnam is a destination you can visit all year round. It’s an incredibly large country with different climatic zones. The dry season and the rainy season alternate in different regions. This means that when it’s the best time to travel to Northern Vietnam, it may not be the ideal season for Southern Vietnam. So, there isn’t one best time to travel for the entire country, but each season has its advantages and disadvantages. Generally, the best time for a trip through Vietnam is between May and October. Below, you’ll read about the differences and best times to travel for various regions in Vietnam.

Best Time to Travel to Northern Vietnam
Best Time to Travel to Central Vietnam
Best Time to Travel to Southern Vietnam


#2 Negotiation is Part of the Game
In Vietnam, it’s perfectly normal to negotiate prices. As a traveler, you often pay more than locals, so to avoid overpaying, it’s essential to negotiate firmly. Think of it as a game that you play in a friendly and respectful manner. Reacting angrily or walking away during negotiations is highly unusual in Vietnamese culture and is considered impolite. With a bit of patience and a smile, you can often get a good deal.

Note: You cannot negotiate prices where fixed prices are in place. Fixed prices are found in places like supermarkets, massage parlors, and restaurants.



#3 Currency, ATMs, and Tipping in Vietnam
The local currency in Vietnam is the dong (VND), and when you arrive at the airport, cash will be one of the first things you need. There are always ATMs at the airport where you can withdraw money. Withdraw the maximum amount because you’ll pay a commission per transaction. In most destinations in Vietnam, you’ll find ATMs where you can withdraw Vietnamese dong. Places where this can be a bit more challenging are small villages around Sapa. Therefore, make sure you always travel to small villages with enough cash. Also, make sure you always have some small change with you to give tips. Tipping is not mandatory in Vietnam, but it is greatly appreciated. Most locals don’t earn much, and giving a little extra will put a big smile on their faces.

Tip: Download a currency exchange app on your phone so you can see the current value of the Vietnamese dong.



#4 Tips for Crossing Busy Roads
Traffic in Vietnam is entirely different and cannot be compared to the traffic we are used to at home. Vietnam is full of scooters, and in the big cities, it may seem impossible to cross the road as a pedestrian. With the following tips in mind, you’ll confidently cross the road.

When you want to cross the street, it’s a good idea to follow other pedestrians. If you find it really daunting, ask for help.
Look for a safe crossing place. Look out for crosswalks, pedestrian bridges, or traffic lights to cross.
Make sure you walk at a predictable pace while crossing. You’ll see that traffic anticipates your movements. Accidents happen when you do unexpected things like walking back or running. So, never do this!
Try to make eye contact with the driver coming towards you and check if they have seen you.


#5 You Need to Apply for a Visa for Vietnam
You must apply for an e-visa for Vietnam before your trip. You can do this best through the official website of the Vietnamese government. This website provides up-to-date information on visa regulations in Vietnam. These regulations can change, so I recommend reading the information and arranging your Vietnam visa through the official website before your trip.


#6 Learn a Few Vietnamese Words Before You Go
The Vietnamese language is based on Thai and Chinese, and differences in tones can completely change the meaning of words. There are a total of six intonations used in the Vietnamese language. You can imagine that it’s not an easy language to learn. Before traveling to Vietnam, it’s nice to learn a few basic words. Many Vietnamese people do not speak English, and they appreciate it when you make an effort to immerse yourself in their culture and language. This will definitely bring a smile to their faces.

Hello: Xin chào – pronounced as Sin chow
Goodbye: Tam Biêt – pronounced as Tam Biet
Yes: Vâng – pronounced as Vang
No: Không – pronounced as Kong
Thank you: Kåm On – pronounced as Kam own



#7 Use the Grab App to Order Taxis
In big cities like Hanoi or Ho Chi Minh, you can use Grab, which is the Asian equivalent of Uber. Ordering a taxi through Grab is incredibly easy, and you’ll never overpay. You can read reviews about the driver, and they know exactly where you want to go. Plus, you don’t have to negotiate the price anymore. If you want to use Grab, it’s a good idea to get a local SIM card with data. This way, you can order a taxi at any time. In addition to a taxi, you can also order a Grab scooter. You need a bit of courage for this because it’s quite an experience to zip through the busy traffic of Hanoi or Ho Chi Minh.



#8 Always Carry Some Toilet Paper While Traveling in Vietnam
It’s common for there to be no toilet paper in restrooms in Vietnam. Therefore, it’s a good idea to always have some toilet paper in your bag.



#9 Tips for Traveling by Bus in Vietnam
When traveling through Vietnam, you can’t avoid long bus journeys. Taking long bus journeys is the way to get around in Vietnam. Buses are incredibly cheap and often quite comfortable. For long distances, take a night bus. In a night bus, you can often lie completely flat, allowing you to sleep comfortably. A funny detail is that you always have to take off your shoes when boarding a night bus. You’ll be given clean slippers to keep the bus clean. Don’t forget to bring enough drinks and snacks when you’re on a long bus ride. Warm clothing is also essential because the air conditioning can be turned up to the max.

Tip: On 12Go, you can find all different buses and routes in Vietnam. You pay a fair price here, and you can read reviews about the bus company.



#10 Taste the Vietnamese Cuisine in Vietnam
Vietnamese cuisine consists of dishes with rice, noodles, meat or fish, combined with fresh vegetables and herbs. Vietnamese food is known for its surprising flavor sensations, always striving for the perfect balance between sweet, sour, and spicy. Vietnamese people love using herbs and sauces to refine their dishes. Taste various Vietnamese dishes during your trip and get to know Vietnamese cuisine.

Pho is a famous Vietnamese dish. It’s a rice noodle soup with meat, various vegetables, and herbs. You can eat this dish on almost every street corner in Vietnam. If you want something smaller, go for fresh Vietnamese spring rolls. In Vietnamese menus, these spring rolls are called Goi Cuon. My personal favorite is the famous Vietnamese sandwich called Banh Mi. It’s a baguette filled with meat and vegetables. A true classic in Vietnamese cuisine. It’s delicious as a snack, and there is often a vegetarian option available, filled with vegetables and egg. Enjoy!



#11 Plastic Waste in Vietnam
During my trip to Vietnam, I noticed that there is a lot of litter. Plastic can be found on the streets, in nature, and on the beaches. A local explained to me that the problem persists because many people are poorly educated and don’t receive information about the harmful consequences of plastic. I want to urge everyone to lend a (small) hand. If you’re going for a hike to a waterfall or spending a day at the beach, consider bringing a garbage bag and picking up litter you come across along the way. It feels great to leave a place cleaner than you found it. Of course, it also helps to use a reusable water bottle and avoid taking plastic bags from stores.



#12 The Ultimate Travel Itinerary for Vietnam
Vietnam is a beautiful country for a round trip. With our ultimate travel itinerary for Vietnam, you will visit the most beautiful places and get to know the various aspects of the country in a few weeks. You will immerse yourself in Vietnamese culture, explore the vibrant cities, savor the flavors of local cuisine, and find peace in the beautiful countryside. This way, you’ll make the most of your trip to Vietnam!


Vietnam is a captivating destination, known for its vibrant culture, delicious cuisine, and breathtaking landscapes. But like any other travel destination, ensuring your safety requires preparation and mindfulness. Whether you’re a solo traveler in Vietnam, travel Vietnam with family tour or an adventurous group, following these tips will help guarantee a smooth and enjoyable journey. This guide focuses on ensuring safe travel in Vietnam, offering practical advice for your trip.

Vietnam’s Safety Level
Vietnam is widely regarded as one of the safest destinations in Southeast Asia. Its low crime rates, friendly population and general sense of security make it a welcoming country for tourists. Politically stable and generally free from major security concerns, Vietnam’s cities and towns allow travelers to explore freely even at night in many areas. These are also reasons why people visit Vietnam

However, there are still challenges. Traffic chaos in urban areas, petty theft in crowded tourist spots, and the unfamiliarity of some cultural norms can lead to minor inconveniences. Being informed about these issues can help you stay vigilant and make smart choices.

Tips for Safe Travel in Vietnam
1. Prepare Before Your Trip
Proper preparation is the key to a safe journey. Start by ensuring all necessary documents are in order:

Apply for your visa well in advance. Vietnam offers an efficient e-visa system for citizens of many countries.
Confirm that your passport has at least six months of validity remaining.
Secure comprehensive travel insurance that covers medical emergencies, theft, and trip cancellations.
Travel Insurance
Travel insurance is compulsory to travel to Vietnam

Health is another aspect of preparation. Consult with your healthcare provider to ensure you’re up-to-date on vaccinations such as hepatitis A, typhoid and tetanus. Depending on your itinerary, vaccinations for Japanese encephalitis or malaria prevention may be recommended.

Read more: Vaccinations, Health Risks and Preventive Measures to Travel to Vietnam

Researching Vietnamese customs and cultural norms will also enhance your experience. For example, removing shoes when entering homes and temples is customary, and dressing modestly at religious sites is a sign of respect. The understanding of custom can prevent misunderstandings and make your trip more enriching.

2. Stay Safe on the Road
Vietnam’s traffic can be a culture shock for many first-time visitors. In bustling cities like Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, motorbikes dominate the roads, often weaving through traffic unpredictably. Crossing the street may seem daunting at first, but follow these tips to stay safe:

Use designated pedestrian crossings and wait for an appropriate moment to cross, even if it means taking your time.
Walk confidently but cautiously; drivers are used to adjusting their routes for pedestrians. Consider booking a guided walking tour to familiarize yourself with traffic norms in urban areas.
If you plan to rent a motorbike, ensure that you have the appropriate license and are comfortable riding in crowded conditions. Always wear a certified helmet and avoid driving at night or in rural areas without adequate lighting.


Heavy traffic in Hanoi

For long-distance travel, consider using trains or buses, which are both affordable and safer than self-driving on unfamiliar roads. Vietnam’s train system offers scenic routes, while long-distance buses like the “sleeper bus” are budget-friendly and comfortable. Alternatively, ride-booking apps like Grab or Be are convenient and reliable for shorter distances.

3. Protect Your Belongings
Like any tourist destination, pickpocketing can occur in crowded places. To minimize risks:

Use anti-theft bags with secure zippers and slash-resistant straps.
Avoid displaying valuables such as jewelry, smartphones or any expensive electronics in busy markets or tourist hubs.
Keep photocopies of important documents and store the originals securely.
When choosing accommodations, opt for hotels or hostels with strong reviews emphasizing safety. Most accommodations in Vietnam offer in-room safes for storing your valuables. If you’re staying in budget options, inquire about lockers or secure storage facilities.

4. Maintain Your Health
Staying healthy while traveling ensures you enjoy every moment of your trip. Vietnam is famous for its street food, but ensuring food safety is crucial to avoid illness. To minimize risks:

Eat at busy restaurants with high turnover, indicating fresh ingredients.
Opt for cooked dishes rather than raw or undercooked foods, especially seafood.
Drink bottled water and avoid ice in beverages unless you’re sure it’s made from purified water.

Vietnamese food is diverse but there is a potential risk of unknown origin

You should pack a basic first-aid kit, including medications for common travel ailments like motion sickness, diarrhea, and headaches. Sunscreen, insect repellent, and hand sanitizers are also essential, especially if you plan to explore rural or tropical areas.

And for peace of mind, research nearby hospitals or clinics at each destination. Major cities like Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City have international-standard medical facilities.

5. Stay Connected and Informed
Staying connected during your trip enhances both convenience and safety. A local SIM card with data is inexpensive and widely available at airports and major towns. With reliable internet access, you can use navigation apps like Google Maps and communication platforms such as WhatsApp to stay in touch with family or fellow travelers.

Before you go, save emergency numbers such as:

113 for police
115 for ambulance services
Your country’s embassy or consulate in Vietnam
Staying informed about local news and weather conditions can also help you avoid potential disruptions or hazards during your trip.

Cultural Awareness
Vietnam’s rich culture is one of its main draws, but understanding and respecting local customs is vital for a safe and enjoyable trip. When visiting temples or other sacred sites:

Dress modestly, covering your shoulders and knees.
Remove your shoes before entering.

Take off your shoes before entering pagodas

Learning a few basic phrases in Vietnamese, such as “Xin lỗi” (sorry) or “Không sao đâu” (it’s okay), can make a big difference in your interactions and leave a positive impression.

Areas and Activities to Be Cautious About
While Vietnam is generally safe, certain situations require extra caution:

Overcrowded tourist spots: Destinations like Ha Long Bay and Hoi An can get extremely busy during peak seasons. Plan visits during off-peak hours or months for a more relaxed experience.
Travel scams: Be wary of overly persistent vendors, unofficial motor drivers, or overly good offers of tours and services. Stick to reputable operators.
Adventure activities: Trekking in Sapa or snorkeling in Nha Trang should be arranged through reputable tour operators. Avoid companies with poor safety records or outdated equipment.

Hanoi Old Quarter gets crowded during travel seasons

Travel experiences
Many travelers recount positive experiences of safe travel in Vietnam, often highlighting the kindness of locals and the efficiency of services. From helpful staff at accommodations to honest taxi drivers, Vietnam is full of welcoming gestures.

However, some common advice from seasoned travelers such as falling victim,  inflated taxi fares or being overcharged at markets. Learning from these stories can help you navigate potential pitfalls.

Our final thoughts
Vietnam is a wonderful destination that offers a unique blend of history, culture, and natural beauty. By following these tips for safe travel in Vietnam, you can make the most of your journey while minimizing risks.

Preparing thoroughly and staying vigilant in crowded areas, respecting local customs and embracing cultural nuances, every step you take contributes to a safer, more enjoyable adventure. Get ready to pack your bags, plan wisely, and share unforgettable memories in this beautiful country.

All Travel Tips In Vietnam And Essential Advice For Your Vietnam Trip

Welcome to Autour Asia's ultimate guide on travel tips in Vietnam! Whether you're a first-time visitor or a seasoned traveler, our comprehensive collection of advice ensures you experience the best this captivating country has to offer. From the bustling streets of Hanoi to the serene waters of Ha Long Bay, we cover essential tips for navigating Vietnam's diverse landscapes, vibrant cultures, and mouth-watering cuisine. Trust Autour Asia, your Vietnam Travel Agency, to provide you with insider knowledge, practical tips, and hidden gems that will make your Vietnamese adventure unforgettable. Dive in and discover the secrets to an amazing journey in Vietnam!
French version: Conseil Voyage Vietnam
Vietnam Travel Tips
1. Prepare for the trip to Vietnam
2. Vietnam Tourist Visa
a. Visa Exemption
b. Entry Visa
3. Guide and Driver
4. Climate - Temperature
a. In the north Vietnam
b. Climate in the central region
c. Best time to visit the Vietnam south
5. Homestays
6. Travel Tips for Luggages when Travelling to Vietnam
7. How to choose the best Vietnam restaurant?
9. Tipping Culture in Vietnam
10. Currency and Exchange in Vietnam
11. During the journey in Vietnam
12. Our criteria for services selection
1. Prepare for the trip to Vietnam
Travel tips in Vietnam
Travel tips in Vietnam

Passport valid for at least 6 months after the return date of the flight ticket
Printed visa approval letter
4 photos 4x6cm just in case
Printed international and domestic flight tickets
Printed final itinerary of the Vietnam trip
Cash dollars for customs payment (if obtaining visa on arrival):
In Vietnam: 30 USD/person
In Cambodia: 30 USD/person
In Laos: 20 - 42 USD/person (depending on your nationality)
In Myanmar: 30 USD/person
This might captivate you: Vietnam best time to visit

2. Vietnam Tourist Visa
a. Visa Exemption
According to the new law of the Vietnamese government, citizens from France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the UK, Russia, Japan, South Korea, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Belarus will be exempt from a Vietnam entry visa provided that the duration of their stay does not exceed 45 days, and the passport is valid for at least 6 months after the end of the stay. If a trip to Vietnam is less than 45 days, you will be exempt from a visa. To obtain this exemption, present your passports, entry, and exit flight tickets to the Vietnamese customs.

For your information: Vietnam Visa Exemption
b. Entry Visa
For your entry visa, I recommend applying for an E-visa online by following the link provided by the government ( click here ). If you don't have time, we can assist you for a fee of 40 USD per person.

Please print this E-visa and take it with you to the airport, as some airlines may refuse boarding without this document.

E-visa Vietnam
E-visa Vietnam

Note: It is advisable to arrive at the airport with cash dollars or euros just in case
Read more : Evisa Vietnam
3. Guide and Driver
Travel Tips in Vietnam: After you exit the international zone of the airport or border checkpoint, look for your guide who will be holding a welcome sign with your name on it. Rest assured, we will provide you with a detailed description of your guide beforehand to ensure a smooth and stress-free meeting. This allows you to quickly identify your guide among the crowd and begin your journey with ease. Make sure to check your email or contact us directly by WhatsApp if you need any additional information or assistance regarding your guide's appearance or other relevant details.

4. Climate - Temperature
Each season in Vietnam carries its own unique beauty
Each season in Vietnam carries its own unique beauty

a. In the north Vietnam
Northern Vietnam experiences a diverse climate throughout the year, characterized by distinct seasonal changes. From February to April, spring graces the region with mild temperatures ranging from 9 to 19°C, making it an ideal time for outdoor activities and exploring the natural beauty of the landscape. As summer arrives from May to July, the weather shifts dramatically to hot and humid conditions, accompanied by heavy rainfall. During this rainy season, temperatures average around 29°C but can soar up to a scorching 42°C on particularly hot days. Despite the heat, the rains bring a refreshing vibrancy to the lush green scenery.

Autumn, spanning from August to October, brings a welcome respite from the summer heat. The weather turns cool and pleasant, offering a perfect balance for travelers looking to enjoy the outdoors without the extremes of temperature. This season is often considered one of the best times to visit Northern Vietnam due to its comfortable climate and beautiful autumnal landscapes.

Climate in the north Vietnam in winter is different from the other seasons. Winter sets in from November to January, marking the dry season with cooler temperatures averaging 17°C. However, it's not uncommon for temperatures to drop further, reaching between 5 to 10°C, especially in the highlands. The crisp, dry air during this period provides a different charm, making winter an intriguing time to experience the cultural and natural offerings of Northern Vietnam.

b. Climate in the central region
The climate in the center Vietnam is uniquely characterized by its susceptibility to storms, particularly from September to December. This central region, known for its historical sites and beautiful coastlines, experiences significant weather variations throughout the year. During the storm season, the area can be affected by typhoons and heavy rainfall, leading to potential flooding and disruptions. Travelers should be mindful of these conditions when planning their trips during these months. It is advisable to stay updated with weather forecasts and be prepared for possible itinerary changes.

Despite the stormy period, the central region of Vietnam offers much to explore. Cities like Hue, Hoi An, and Da Nang are rich in cultural heritage and provide numerous attractions. For those visiting outside the storm season, the weather tends to be more stable, offering warm temperatures and clear skies, perfect for sightseeing and enjoying the beaches.

Autour Asia recommends that travelers consider these seasonal weather patterns to make the most of their visit. Packing appropriate rain gear, staying informed about weather conditions, and having flexible travel plans are crucial travel tips in Vietnam. Whether you’re exploring ancient citadels, lounging on pristine beaches, or experiencing local festivals, understanding the climate in central Vietnam will help ensure a safe and enjoyable journey.

c. Best time to visit the Vietnam south
The climate in the south Vietnam is characterized by a tropical monsoon climate, with distinct wet and dry seasons that significantly influence travel plans. The average temperature throughout the year hovers around a warm 30°C, making it a popular destination for those seeking sunshine and warmth. From May to November, the region experiences its rainy season, marked by heavy downpours and occasional thunderstorms. Despite the frequent rain, this period brings a lush, vibrant landscape, perfect for nature enthusiasts looking to explore the verdant beauty of the Mekong Delta and other natural attractions. However, travelers should be prepared for sudden showers and plan their outdoor activities accordingly.

From mid-November to April, the dry season sets in, offering a stark contrast with its clear skies and minimal rainfall. This period is ideal for beachgoers and those looking to enjoy the bustling cities like Ho Chi Minh City without the interruption of rain. The consistently warm and dry weather during these months provides perfect conditions for exploring the region's historical sites, enjoying coastal activities, and experiencing the local culture.

For optimal travel experiences, it's essential to consider these seasonal variations when planning your trip. Whether you're navigating the rainy season or basking in the dry, sunny days, these Vietnam travel tips will help you make the most of your southern Vietnam adventure.

5. Homestays
Homestay in Vietnam
Homestay in Vietnam

In your itinerary, you will have one or more nights in homestays Vietnam. It is a family, rural, rustic habitat in a traditional house, typically on stilts, in a communal area. Houses hosting tourists are generally well-equipped (we ensure quality reception for our clients): a mattress, a blanket, a sheet, and a mosquito net for each guest. Travel tips in Vietnam, in any case, we recommend bringing your hygiene and essential products: toothbrush, toothpaste, soap, shampoo, face towels, etc. If your suitcase is already quite full, you can easily purchase these items in Vietnam.

6. Travel Tips for Luggages when Travelling to Vietnam
Travel tips in Vietnam, regarding your luggage, our entire team is well-trained to take the utmost care. During your visits, you can leave your belongings in the car. In homestays, you can inform the guide that you are leaving items in the house; he will be responsible for finding a safe place for them. In principle, no one will touch them. However, we cannot guarantee your valuable items (such as money, jewelry, camera...). We cannot know every situation during your trip. Always be careful with your bags, especially if you have important things inside.

7. How to choose the best Vietnam restaurant?
There are all types of restaurants in Vietnam
There are all types of restaurants in Vietnam

In Vietnam, there are all types of restaurants, ranging from popular to upscale. The prices of meals also vary significantly, corresponding to each type of restaurant. Travel tips in Vietnam, for popular eateries, the prices are always very affordable (around 3 to 5 euros, or even less) and are highly popular in the daily life of the Vietnamese people. If you wish to dine at popular restaurants, always seek advice from your guide or hotel staff for good recommendations.

9. Tipping Culture in Vietnam
Understanding the tipping culture in Vietnam is essential for travelers seeking to show appreciation for excellent service while ensuring a pleasant journey. In Vietnam, tipping is seen as a civilized custom, providing a heartfelt thank you to those who offer helpful, attentive, and dedicated service. As per travel tips in Vietnam recommended by Autour Asia, there are customary rates to follow during your travels.

For travel guides, it is customary to tip around 5 USD per person per day. This gesture acknowledges their efforts in providing valuable insights, ensuring smooth travel experiences, and enhancing your understanding of Vietnamese culture and history. Drivers, who play a crucial role in navigating the often bustling and hectic roads, typically receive a tip of 2 USD per person per day, reflecting your appreciation for their safe and reliable service.

For individuals providing minor services such as porters, cyclo riders, rowboat operators, boat crew members, and waiters, a tip of 1 USD per person is customary. This small amount can significantly impact their income and is a token of gratitude for their contributions to your enjoyable experience.

Following these tipping guidelines not only shows respect for the local customs but also enhances your travel experience by fostering goodwill and positive interactions with the service providers you encounter.

For the guide: 5 USD per person per day.
For the driver: 2 USD per person per day.
For individuals providing minor services (porter, cyclo rider, rowboat, boat crew, junk, waiter, etc.): 1 USD per person.
This might interest you: How to tip in Vietnam?

10. Currency and Exchange in Vietnam
Travel tips in Vietnam: It is advisable to exchange money at the local bank to get the best exchange rate. Here is the updated exchange rate in 2024:

In Vietnam:

1 USD = 25,000 VND (Dong)
1 EUR = 27,500 VND (Dong)
This may attract you:

>> Currency in Vietnam
>> Vietnam travel guide
11. During the journey in Vietnam
Essential advice for your Vietnam trip
Essential advice for your Vietnam trip

Travel tips in Vietnam:
a. At the hotel

• Check-in: 14:00 PM
• Check-out: 12:00 PM
• Free Wi-Fi in hotels
b. You will also have walking days. For your health, it is recommended to prepare good, comfortable shoes for walks, and especially not to come with new shoes! It's also better to bring light clothes that you've been wearing for some time, and also insect repellent lotion.
c. When staying overnight on a cruise, enhance your comfort by bringing along only the essential items. Leave the rest securely stored in your vehicle.
d. For a trip to Vietnam: If you are allergic to something specific, please let us know so that we can prepare your meals accordingly.
e. Pay close attention when crossing the street in Vietnam, as there are many motorcycles in both directions. Never step back, always move forward slowly.
f. Vietnam is very peaceful, but there are pickpockets. For your peace of mind, leave your passports at the hotel reception until your departure for a new destination. Leave valuable items (jewelry, money) in the hotel safe.
g. When walking in the streets, put your backpack in front of you to better control it.
h. When you want to buy souvenirs (except in supermarkets where the price is indicated), you can negotiate at 20% - 30% less than the advertised price. Euros, USD, Vietnamese Dongs, and credit cards are accepted in large shops.
i. Travel guide in Vietnam: For expenses during your trip, you can bring euros or dollars (limit set by Vietnam: 7000 dollars or 5000 euros; beyond that, a declaration is required), major stores accept them, or you can exchange them for local currency, especially if you want to eat in street restaurants. Additionally, the ATM system (Visa card or equivalent) works very well and is completely secure in Vietnam.
j. Ask our guide to help you distinguish Vietnamese currency bills (there are many zeros...).
k. Wear long clothes when entering the pagoda during your visit.
l. Bring mosquito repellent, sunscreen, and necessary medications.
m. No vaccines are mandatory. However, we recommend that you keep your routine vaccinations up to date (diphtheria, tetanus, typhoid, polio, hepatitis). Consult your doctor for advice.
n. The electrical voltage in Vietnam is 220V.
12. Our criteria for services selection
Our hotel selection criteria for you:
A charming hotel or eco-friendly resort, well located.
Air - conditioned room with window, private bathroom and toilet.
Committed to promoting responsible and sustainable eco-tourism.
Free wifi.
In resorts, it is essential to harmonize with nature, surrounded by numerous green trees. The staff is constantly committed to preserving the environment and nature.
Our junk boat cruise selection criteria for you:

Air-conditioned cabin with sea view and private bathroom and toilettes inside. Interior decorated with modern comforts.
The itinerary is off the beaten track, away from the 500 other boats in the bay.
Fine and varied cuisine with various seafoods.
Personal caring.
Committed to promoting responsible and sustainable eco-tourism.
For more information, please visit website listed in the "Halong Bay cruises"
Our homestay selection criteria for you:

A lovely host, hospitable, friendly.
Clean and tidy.
The host must strive to promote responsible and sustainable tourism.
Free wifi.
Our vehicle selection criteria for you:

Private Car: air conditioner, declinable chairs, bottles of water and cold towels provided during the trip.
Professional drivers, competent, attentive, accustomed to drive with foreign customers.
Our restaurant selection criteria for you:

As mentioned in the program
Typical and authentic, they will be served in local restaurants or on the junk or homestay.
Committed to promoting responsible and sustainable eco-tourism.
Breakfast is included at the hotel.
Our guide selection criteria for you:

Local guides specialized by region, professional, English speaking; approved and certified by the National Tourism Administration.
For free days: No guide, no driver.

Vietnam Travel Tips – Explore Like A Local With These Tips!
vm travel team
July 24, 2023 9:59 am
Vietnam, officially known as the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, is a beautiful country in Southeast Asia. With a history spanning thousands of years, Vietnam is a land of remarkable diversity and cultural vibrancy. Apart from the rich culture, this country has a stunning landscape with plenty of famous landmarks along the country’s length.

Favored by natural wonders, Vietnam owns abundant rice terraces, dramatic mountain ranges, beautiful caves, and pristine white sandy beaches. Vietnamese people are also famous for their warm hospitality, resilience, and skillfulness, reflected through vibrant traditions, flavorful cuisine, and great arts. Nowadays, Vietnam is preserving and promoting traditional values, a destination that promises many attractive things to discover.  

To prepare for your future visit, the information and guidance in this article will help you have a smooth experience before going to Vietnam. Enjoy!

Show table of content
1. Visa and Vietnam travel tips
1.1 Visa Types and Application Process
Most travelers to Vietnam are required to have a visa to enter the country. However, a convenient solution for travelers is an E-visa. This electronic travel authorization allows foreign citizens to enter and travel inside Vietnam for particular reasons, including tourism or business, without needing a traditional paper visa.

In July 2020, the E-Visa for Vietnam will be accessible to nationals of 80 countries, valid for 30 days, and is a single entry. However, starting from 15th August 2023, the E-visas validity is extended from 30 to incredible 90 days. After being granted an e-visa, a foreigner can enter and exit an unlimited number of times within 90 days without applying for a new visa procedure.
The applying E-visa process is simple, fast, and convenient. Here is step-by-step guidance and complete information for your E-visa for Vietnam application

1.2 Essential Travel Documents to Carry
Passport: Ensure your passport is valid for at least six months before leaving Vietnam. Bring the original passport as well as a photocopy of the information page.

Visa: Check your country’s visa requirements and secure the necessary visa before your journey. You can apply for a visa at a Vietnamese embassy or consulate or, if eligible, receive an e-visa.

Flight Tickets: Carry printed copies of your flight itinerary and tickets – the ticket information might ask at immigration checkpoints and valuable for reference during your trip.

Accommodation confirmation: Carry information about your hotel or accommodation bookings, including the addresses and contact numbers. This information may be required when filling out arrival forms.

International Driving Permit (IDP): If you intend to drive in Vietnam, you must get an IDP. Vietnamese authorities approve this permit.

2. Best Time to Visit Vietnam
2.1 Weather and Climate
Vietnam is a long coastline and diverse country; therefore, the ideal time for your journey to Vietnam depends on the region you plan to explore and the activities you wish to engage in during your trip. Vietnam has three main parts, the North, the Central, and the South, and the weather can vary from region to region.Taken as a whole, the ideal time to travel to the regions of Vietnam will fall in February, March, and April. Here is the detailed information for each weather region in Vietnam to help you have the smoothest possible trip.

2.2 Festivals and Events: Planning Around Cultural Celebrations
Vietnam is a country rich in cultural festivals and events throughout the year. Planning your trip around these celebrations can provide a unique and immersive experience of Vietnamese culture. Here are some of the major festivals and events in Vietnam:

Lunar New Year (Tet Nguyen Dan): This is Vietnam’s most important and widely celebrated festival, usually between late January and mid-February. You can witness colorful flower markets, visit local markets, and enjoy traditional foods during this period.

Hue Festival: Every two years in Hue, usually in April or May, the Hue Festival showcases the city’s rich heritage and imperial history. It features cultural events, including traditional music and dance performances, royal court games, food fairs, and a spectacular light show. 

Mid-Autumn Festival: Celebrated on the 15th day of the eighth lunar month (around September or October), the Mid-Autumn Festival is especially significant for children. Lantern processions, lion dances, and mooncake tastings are popular activities during this time. 

Hoi An Lantern Festival: Held on the 14th day of each lunar month in Hoi An’s Ancient Town, this monthly festival creates a magical atmosphere. Visitors can participate in cultural activities, enjoy traditional music performances, and release floating lanterns on the river.

These are just a few examples of the many festivals and events celebrated in Vietnam. It’s important to note that festivals and events dates vary each year based on the lunar calendar.

lantern festival in hoian
Lantern festival in hoian – Vietnam travel tips
2.3 Local Sim Card
How to get a local sim card in Vietnam? Is it easy to activate? The answer is yes! Visitors can easily buy a sim card at reasonable prices at the airport or any convenience store. The three largest mobile carriers in Vietnam include MobiFone, VinaPhone, and Viettel, so visitors can choose those suppliers to have the best quality services when accessing mobile networks in Vietnam. Also, you can buy sim cards in advance via reputable websites and receive them when you enter the airport.

3. Health and Safety Considerations
3.1 Covid-19 in Vietnam 2023: Medical Declarations, Testing, and Isolation
On 15th May 2022, the Ministry of Health lifted all the requirements related to Covid-19. Foreigners entering Vietnam no longer need to make medical declarations about Covid-19, temporarily suspending the requirement for SARS-CoV-2 testing before entry and not requiring isolation. Therefore, visitors can enter Vietnam without any worries about the issues of Covid-19.

3.2 Travel Insurance: Ensuring Coverage in Vietnam
Vietnam is a peaceful and safe country. However, obtaining unforeseen circumstances, travel insurance is essential to rest assured and enjoy a fantastic trip in Vietnam. It will cover motorbikes accidents, medical coverage, emergency evacuation, repatriation, baggage protection, personal cash, flight delay, or even trip cancellation. Choose a reliable and professional health insurance provider to purchase travel insurance for your trip to Vietnam.

3.3 Food Safety: Tips for Healthy Eating
Coming to Vietnam, you will be surely overwhelmed by the paradise of culinary with an abundance of delicious local food. How do you know if the food from the high-end restaurant or street food stalls is quality? Here are some vital tips to have food safety in Vietnam: 

Eat Cooked Foods: To minimize the risk of foodborne diseases, focus on consuming thoroughly cooked foods. Steaming, boiling, and grilling are safer than raw or undercooked dishes.

Avoid Street Food Risks: While street food is an integral part of Vietnamese cuisine, it’s essential to be cautious. Look for vendors with high clients, ensuring the ingredients are fresh and regularly replenished. 

Be Careful with Raw Fruits and Vegetables: Raw fruits and vegetables can be safe if properly washed and peeled. To be safe, choose fruits and vegetables that you can peel yourself. 

Beware of Ice and Beverages: Reputable establishments serve ice with filtered water, which is safe to consume. However, it’s best to exercise caution with street vendors or smaller establishments. Consider choosing bottled or hot drinks prepared when ordering beverages.Carry an Antidiarrheal Medication: Lat but not least, it’s a good idea to have antidiarrheal medication in your travel medical kit.

4. Currency and Exchange Rates
4.1 Vietnamese Dong: Understanding the Local Currency
Understanding the local currency of Vietnam, the Vietnamese Dong (VND), is essential for travelers visiting the country. The Vietnamese Dong is available in banknotes. And usually, 1 USD is approximately 23,000 VND.

4.2 Exchanging Currency: Banks, ATMs, and Currency Exchange Centers
The exchange rate between the Vietnamese Dong and other currencies can fluctuate. It’s advisable to check the current exchange rates before your trip. Central banks, authorized money exchange booths, and hotels in Vietnam provide currency exchange services.

4.3 Credit Cards and Payment Options
Vietnam uses credit cards and other payment options, including transfer wire and QR code scanning, especially in larger cities and popular tourist areas. Here’s what you need to know about using credit cards and other payment methods in Vietnam:

Credit Cards: Major credit cards like Visa, MasterCard, and to a lesser extent, American Express are accepted in upscale hotels, restaurants, and large retail stores. However, it’s important to note that small local businesses, street vendors, and rural areas may not accept credit cards. It’s always wise to carry some cash for such situations.

Debit Cards: Debit cards linked to international networks like Visa or MasterCard can be used at ATMs to withdraw Vietnamese Dong. Debit cards are accepted at some establishments for payment, but their usage is less widespread than credit cards.

vietnam Currency
Vietnam Currency – Vietnam travel tips
5. Communication and Language
Vietnamese is the official language in this country. Learning a few key phrases is the easiest way to get close to culture and local people. They will be happy when you are trying to speak Vietnamese to show respect for them. They will appreciate your communication efforts and will often be willing to assist you. Here are some commonly Vietnamese phrases for you to learn by heart. Enjoy!

Hello – Xin chào
Goodbye – Tạm biệt
Thank you – Cảm ơn
Sorry – Xin lỗi
No problem! – Không sao!
Please help me! – Làm ơn giúp tôi!
How much is it? – Cái này giá bao nhiêu?
Nice to meet you! – Rất vui được gặp bạn!
English is spoken to some extent in larger cities and is typically used frequently at tourist areas, hotels, restaurants, and popular attractions.  However, the level of English proficiency can vary among individuals. Carrying a translation app to bridge language barriers is a good idea. 

If you’re visiting more remote areas or need assistance with communication, hiring a local tour guide or interpreter can be beneficial. They can help bridge the language gap, provide cultural insights, and enhance your overall experience.

Vietnam travel tips
Discover local life of Vietnam people
6. Transportation and Getting Around
6.1 Flights
Vietnam has several domestic airlines that operate flights between major cities and tourist destinations. Vietnam has four leading airlines that serve domestic flights: Vietnam Airlines, Vietject Air, Jetstar Pacific, and Bamboo Airways. Flight is the fastest way to travel long distances within the country.

6.2 Trains and Buses
Vietnam has an extensive railway network that connects major cities and towns. The trains offer different classes, including sleeper cabins for overnight journeys. With the train, you can have the chance to experience the most beautiful railway trains in Vietnam. It is impossible not to mention the train from Hue to Da Nang and versa. The train route cross Lang Co Bay, one of the most breathtaking bays in the world, and Hai Van Pass, with magnificent scenery. 

Buses are a popular mode of transportation in Vietnam and serve both short and long distances. Different bus types are available, from local to luxury sleeper buses for overnight trips. It’s an affordable option, but travel times can be longer due to frequent stops.

6.3 Private Car
If you want to be more proactive and have a perfect trip in travel at beautiful Vietnam, hiring a private car here is the best option for you! With professional and modern car systems, with a team of skilled drivers, friendly and good at English, a private car brings you a fresh experience compared to other commuting services. A private car service lets you choose the places you want to visit without worrying about the limited time. You can control your time, go anywhere you wish, and ask for the driver to stop to snap a photo, have lunch, or take a short nap. This service will bring comfort and freedom in your journey to discover Vietnam.

vietnam car rental
Vietnam Car Rental with English Driver
6.4 Taxis and Ride-Hailing Apps
Taxis are widely available in urban areas. Make sure to choose reputable companies or use ride-hailing services like Grab, Be, and Gojek for convenience and transparency in pricing. However, this option is not always easy, as ordering rides in metropolitan areas during rush hours is relatively troublesome, and you must wait a long time.

6.5 Motorbikes and Cyclos
These traditional modes of transportation are mainly found in tourist areas and can be a unique way to explore the rich culture city, including Ha Noi, Hue, and Hoi An. The Cyclo Tour is ideal for traveling around the city streets in an ancient town like Hue. The Cyclo driver is passionate, and being a friendly tour guide will introduce the city to you through the journey.

7. Accommodation Options
7.1 Hotels and Resorts
Vietnam offers a diverse selection of hotels and resorts across the country. From the budget to four and five-star hotels, hotels in Vietnam vary in design styles. Vietnam also offers various resorts that cater to different budgets and preferences. The most beautiful resorts in Vietnam are at Da Nang and Phu Quoc, with long coastlines, golden sunshine, and white dunes. Hotels and resorts in Vietnam are “heaven” for people who like snapping photos to capture precious moments in Vietnam.

7.2 Homestays and Guesthouses: Authentic Local Experiences
Guest houses and homestays in Vietnam are popular options that give travelers unique opportunities to experience the country’s rich culture, warm hospitality, and authentic local lifestyle. These accommodations offer an alternative to traditional hotels and resorts. Homestays and guesthouses allow visitors to immerse themselves in the daily lives of Vietnamese families or communities.

7.3 Hostels and Budget Accommodations: Ideal for Backpackers
Vietnam has abundant affordable hostels and budget accommodations, making it an ideal backpacker destination. To reduce the budget for the trip, travelers will find a wide range of options to suit their needs, from the bustling streets of Hanoi to the pristine beaches of Da Nang. Hostels in Vietnam frequently offer comfortable dormitory beds, communal areas, and basic amenities at reasonable prices. These types of stays are also considered meeting points for travelers to exchange tips and experiences.

7.4 Tips for Booking Accommodations in Vietnam
When booking accommodations in Vietnam, consider the following tips to ensure a smooth and enjoyable trip:

Plan: Popular destinations in Vietnam can get busy, especially during peak seasons. Book your accommodations well in advance to secure the best options at affordable rates.

Read reviews: Check reviews from previous guests on platforms like TripAdvisor, Booking.com, or Agoda before booking. It will give you insights into the property’s quality, cleanliness, and overall experience.

Location matters: Consider the location of your accommodation. Stay close to major attractions or public transportation to save time and money commuting.

Check for additional charges: Double-check if there are any hidden fees or extra charges beyond the room rate, such as taxes or service fees.

With these tips, you can find suitable and budget-friendly accommodations that enhance your travel experience in Vietnam.

8. Must-Visit Destinations in Vietnam
Below are the best places to visit in Vietnam, from the North to the South this peaceful country:

8.1 Hanoi – The Enchanting Capital City
Hanoi is a charming city in Vietnam famous for combining ancientness and modern beauty. One of the most must-visit spots in the capital is 36 Old Street. Also, take advantage of walking in the serene atmosphere around Hoan Kiem Lake and admiring the Turtle Tower, iconic for the spirit and pride of the Hanoi people.

ha noi in vietnam
Hanoi in Vietnam – Vietnam travel tips
8.2 Hue – Imperial History and Culture
Located in Central Vietnam, Hue is an ancient city famous for its long-lasting history and rich culture. Visiting this tranquil city to turn toward the glorious past of the last dynasty in Vietnam, release in the antique architecture of the Citadel, the majestic royal tombs, and plenty of sacred temples.

hue tours operator
Hue Imperial Citadel
8.3 Da Nang – Beaches and Bridges
In contrast to Hue City, Da Nang offers dynamic energy for visitors. Da Nang is next to the long coastline with blue beaches and a beautiful landscape. Da Nang is also dubbed the most liveable city in Vietnam. This city is home to “Golden Bridge” a grand design located in Ba Na Hills, becoming a new icon in the beautiful Da Nang.

8.4 Hoi An – Ancient Charm and Beauty
Hoi An is one of the most charming cities in the world. In the past, it was a bustling trade port between Vietnam, China, Japan, and some Europe countries. Visitors walking along the beautiful streets of the ancient town will be captivated by roof title houses close together and walls vibrant painted yellow. Also, Lantern Festivals is one of the appealing must-experience in Hoi An. 

8.5 Ho Chi Minh City – Modern Vibrancy
Ho Chi Minh City is also known as “the city that never sleeps”. This place is home to modern skyscrapers, including the tallest building in Vietnam, LandMark 81, and is the headquarters of many large corporations and famous brands. Besides, visitors can visit iconic attractions, including the Notre Dame Cathedral, the Reunification Palace, and the War Remnants Museum.

hochiminh tour
Ho Chi Minh in Vietnam
9. Experience Vietnamese Cuisine
Vietnam offers diverse dishes with diverse flavors and textures. When visiting beautiful Vietnam, take advantage of trying Vietnamese mouthwatering dishes. Some highlight foods that must-try for your journey to tasting Vietnamese flavor include “Pho”, “Banh Mi”, “Bun Cha”, and “Bun Bo Hue” and the list seems to be never-ending. Besides the tasty food,  visitor must-try unique drinks in the S-shape country. It is impossible not to mention “Iced Milk Coffee”, “Coconut Coffee”, “Salt Coffee”, and “Sugar Cane Drink”. 

Apart from traditional cuisine, Vietnam Street Food is also varied and fascinating. Street food is also the heart and soul of Vietnam. Visitors walking along any street in Vietnam are likely captivated by delicious smells everywhere, from grilled meat, grilled rice paper to sweet soup and tofu bean curd. Take advantage of a chance to savor this authentic, affordable local food and release yourself in the bustling streets and the vibrant atmosphere of Vietnam.

vietnam local food
Vietnam local food – vietnam travel tips
10. Vietnam’s cultures and traditions
10.1 History and Heritage
Vietnam has a rich and diverse history, deeply intertwined with its vibrant cultural heritage. The country’s history spans over 4,000 years, with significant influences from various dynasties, cultures, and colonial powers. The Vietnam War, a keynote chapter in its modern history, further shaped the nation’s identity. Today, Vietnam takes immense pride in preserving its history and heritage. From the Complex of Hue Monuments to the Hoi An Ancient Town, a UNESCO World Heritage site, the nation cherishes its past while embracing its present as a dynamic and culturally rich country.

10.2 Temples and Pagodas
Vietnam has many temples and pagodas with magnificent architecture, reflecting the significant culture and historical importance. The sacred structures are evidence of the nation’s spiritual heritage and architectural prowess.

Temples in Vietnam often blend elements of Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism, reflecting the country’s diverse spiritual traditions. Prominent examples include the Temple of Literature in Hanoi, dedicated to Confucius and Vietnam’s scholars, and the Perfume Pagoda, an ancient Buddhist pilgrimage site nestled in a stunning limestone cave. 
On the other hand, pagodas are distinguished by their multi-tiered towers and ornate facades. One iconic pagoda is the One Pillar Pagoda in Hanoi, built on a single stone pillar resembling a lotus bloom. Also, it is impossible not to mention the Thien Mu Pagoda in Hue, an elegant seven-story structure overlooking the poetic Perfume River.

thien mu pagoda
Thien Mu Pagoda
10.3 Traditional Arts and Performance
Vietnam is proud to boast a vibrant cultural heritage, evident in its traditional arts and performances preserved and celebrated for centuries. Various art forms, including music, dance, and theatre, are deeply ingrained in the country’s identity.

The performing arts encompass vibrant dance forms like “Nhạc rối” (puppetry), “Chèo“, and “Cải lương” (reformed theater), each reflecting different regional influences and cultural nuances. Vietnam has unique and diverse traditional music with many genres. The well-known for this is “Nhã nhạc Cung Đình Huế” (elegant music of the Hue royalty), a traditional music performed in the Old Capital of Hue. UNESCO recognizes this genre of music as a Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.

10.4 Local Markets
The market plays a vital role in the way of life in Vietnam. These markets offer a wide range of products, from fresh produce and local delicacies to handicrafts, clothing, and souvenirs. From traditional wet markets and floating markets to the night market, each region in Vietnam has unique features reflecting the local traditions and specialties. Some famous traditional markets in three parts of Vietnam are Dong Xuan Market in Ha Noi, Dong Ba Market in Hue, and Ben Thanh Market in Ho Chi Minh City. Also, do not pass out the Cai Rang Floating Market when visiting Can Tho.

dong ba market
Dong Ba Market – the local Market in Central vietnam
11. Outdoor Adventures and Natural Wonders
With spectacular landscapes from North to South, Vietnam provides thousand of appealing spots for authentic adventurers. 

11.1 Trekking and Camping
Trekking and camping is a fascinating opportunity to discover beautiful Vietnam’s majesty mountain regions or dense forests. Visitors can enjoy the jade green at Nho Que River in Ha Giang Loop or Muong Hoa Valley in Sapa on the trekking path and camping in the hills to get closer to the serene and poetic picturesque of northwestern Vietnam. 

11.2 Water Activities: Kayaking, Snorkeling, and Diving
Immerse yourself in the snorkeling and diving activities with the blue beaches with a range of the coral reef system at Cham Island in Quang Nam or Nha Trang and Phu Quoc Beach. Besides the pristine beaches, kayaking on the River is ideal for hot summer days. Imagine you are kayaking on the poetic Perfume River at Hue City and enjoying the beautiful landscape on both river banks.

vietnam Water Activities
Vietnam Water Activities
11.3 National Parks and Natural Reserves
Vietnam is home to several beautiful national parks and natural reserves that showcase the country’s diverse landscapes and rich biodiversity. These protected areas are essential for conservation efforts and offer opportunities for visitors to experience the natural beauty of Vietnam. Some notable national parks and natural reserves are Cuc Phuong National Park in Ninh Binh, Phong Nha-Ke Bang National Park in Quang Binh, Bach Ma National Park in Hue, and Pu Luong Natural Reserve in Thanh Hoa.

11.4 Caving and Cave Exploration
Regarding cave exploration in Vietnam, Quang Binh Province is the “golden star” in this field. Quang Binh is home to numerous caves, some of which are among the largest and most magnificent in the world. With vast chambers, underground rivers, and unique formations, Son Doong Cave is the world’s largest cave. Also, it is impossible not to mention other majesty caves, including Paradise Cave, Phong Nha Cave, and Hang En Cave in the beautiful Quang Binh.

12. Shopping in Vietnam
Vietnam is a paradise for shopping lovers for its diverse and affordable prices. From traditional markets to great commercial centers, Vietnam has various goods for visitors to bring gifts back home for their beloved ones. In recent years, travelers tend to tailor clothes at reputable in Hoi An Ancient Town. Moreover, visitors should buy silk in Vietnam for its high quality and diversity in texture and materials. Some famous Vietnamese silk villages where tourists can buy authentic silk are Van Phuc Silk Village and Hoi An Silk Village.

Above are valuable tips and information to know before going to Vietnam. For your journey to Vietnam, be sure you are well-prepared and knowledgeable with our helpful information from this article. Now, backpack up and start! Beautiful Vietnam is waiting for you to discover.


20+ Travel Tips for Vietnam: Things to know before you go!
by Kathryn Frazer
Last updated on March 15th, 2024

Heading to Vietnam soon? We’re sharing 20+ travel tips for Vietnam to help you have an amazing trip, especially if it’s your first time in Vietnam!

Visiting a new country can be extremely daunting. Despite traveling full time, our experiences outside of North America have been pretty limited. So when we decided to head to Vietnam for 6 weeks, we felt quite a bit of anxiety.

We had only ever heard incredible things about Vietnam, but it was our first trip to Asia and we had no idea what to expect. However, through tons of research, an open minded attitude, and a desire for adventure, we had the BEST time in the country! That’s not to say we didn’t make some mistakes or learn a thing or two along the way, though. 😃

Watch our entire video series for Vietnam, which shows us visiting different areas across the country, checking out caves, motorbiking in North Vietnam, and so much more!


In this post we’re sharing 20+ travel tips for Vietnam that we learned throughout our 6 weeks in the country. We hope that these Vietnam tips can help you feel better prepared for your own Vietnam adventure.

For even more insight into the country and things to know before you go, read our guide to planning a trip to Vietnam, plus check out our Vietnam eBook, which includes all of our tips, detailed destination guides, itinerary options, and so much more!



Table of Contents
 [show]
20+ Travel Tips for Vietnam
Ninh Binh Vietnam | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam

1. Don’t try to do too much
Vietnam is a large country! It spans 1,025 miles from south to north and there is SO much to see and do. Even with one year to spend, it would be impossible to do it all!

So with that said, don’t try to do too much! We spent almost 6 weeks in the country and still missed so much. While we could’ve squeezed in a couple more spots, we also didn’t want to feel rushed in the places we were visiting.

If you’re feeling unsure how much you can fit into your trip, here is a general guideline based on our experience:


One week: if you only have one week, we’d suggest sticking to one region and exploring it more in depth. Northern Vietnam has a lot to offer for one week!
Two weeks: if you have two weeks, we’d suggest focusing on two regions of Vietnam. Read our 2 week Vietnam itinerary.
Three weeks: if you have three weeks, you could spend 1 week in each region of Vietnam (North, Central, and South). Check out our 3 week Vietnam itinerary.
Four weeks or more: with a month or more, you can experience 1-3 destinations in each region of Vietnam.

Get the behind the scenes scoop!
Sign up to get our monthly newsletter, where we share more real time updates, the highs & lows of traveling, + any content you may have missed!

First Name
Website
Your Email...
Subscribe!
We use your personal data for interest-based advertising, as outlined in our Privacy Notice.
Check out our guide to 12 of the best cities to visit in Vietnam to see what you can add to your itinerary!

2. Plan for enough time to get around the country
Overnight train Vietnam | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam

Another big reason that you don’t want to do too much is because it takes a while to get around Vietnam. There are many modes of transportation to get between destinations, including buses, limos (which are vans), trains, and flying. And sometimes you’ll have to take multiple in one day!

Flying is the quickest way to get around, but for some destinations there is not an airport to fly to and you’ll have to take one of the other options. We personally loved the trains! They gave us the chance to see more scenery, felt safer than a bus or limo (drivers in Vietnam are a bit wild!), and we had more room to spread out.

If you want a very memorable experience, you can take an overnight train as well! You can watch how our 17 hour overnight train went here. I am not sure it’ll convince you to take it, but for us, it was something we won’t forget. And we would probably do it again someday. 😀

When booking travel in Vietnam, we used 12Go. On this site you can put in your origin and destination and it tells you if there are buses/limos, flights, or trains. It’s a great resource to compare options! You can also book transportation directly on their website.

3. Travel from South to North
Northern Vietnam | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Ha Giang Loop | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Ban Gioc Waterfall | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Ninh Binh Trang An Boat Ride | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam

During our trip we started in Ho Chi Minh City and ended in Northern Vietnam and it was the best decision! While we loved Ho Chi Minh City, the scenery gets progressively better and better the further north you go. So by starting in the south and ending up north, you get to save the best views for the end!

4. Get your e-visa before you go
A crucial Vietnam tip is to not only know if you need a visa, but to get it before you go.

As American citizens, we were required to get a visa. At the time of our visit, we could only get one for 30 days, but they have brought back their 3 month visa. But depending on your nationality and length of visit, you may not need one. 

And while you can get a visa upon arrival, getting an e-visa in advance is much easier! To get an e-visa you will want to go to this website. Yes, it looks a tad outdated and sketchy, but this is the website run by the Vietnamese government. There are other websites that you can get your visa from, but they may charge more.


Vietnan e-visa
The e-visa costs $25 USD per person, which can be paid by credit card. You will need to provide your passport information, arrival and departure dates, and entry and exit points. You also have to provide a passport photo. We used this app to take photos at home.

After filling out the information, you will likely hear your results within 3 business days. We suggest planning for longer, just in case. Once approved, make sure to print it to bring with you!

Since our visa was only for 30 days and our trip was 6 weeks, we had to go on a visa run. This meant we had to leave Vietnam part way through our trip and then return on a new visa. It was a good excuse to finally get some khao soi in Chiang Mai, Thailand!


Check out our Vietnam packing list for everything else you’ll need to have in Vietnam!

5. Buy travel insurance
One big travel tip not just for Vietnam, but any international destination is to get travel insurance. 

For our recent trips to Mexico and Vietnam we purchased insurance with SafetyWing for the duration of our trips, which was affordable and gave us a ton of peace of mind.

SafetyWing is travel medical insurance that will cover you outside of your home country for however long you need it. We purchased their Nomad Insurance plan, which not only gave us travel medical insurance, but also provided coverage for lost baggage and travel delays! Thankfully we didn’t have to use any of it!


Insurance that covers you wherever you go.
See how much Nomad Insurance Essential costs:
Age range
0-39 years old

Including travel in the US
?
Specific travel dates
?
Start date
05/09/25
$
56.28
/ 4 weeks (28 days)
Buy now
For our cameras and electronics we have personal article policies with State Farm that works worldwide. This came in handy when Adam took a spill on the motorbike trip and one of our bags, which had one of our cameras in it, hit the pavement. The lens on the camera no longer worked properly, which was a bummer. But thankfully all we had to do was let State Farm know and they sent a check the next day. 


6. Know when Tet is
Tet Holiday

One very important Vietnamese event to be aware of when planning your trip to Vietnam is the Tet holiday. This is the most important celebration in the country and marks the first day of the Lunar New Year. It typically occurs in January or February and is a huge week-long celebration across the country. 

Cities and towns across the country are decked out in flowers and decorations. And while visiting during Tet can provide a unique glimpse into Vietnamese culture, it can also be more challenging. 

This holiday is all about family, so many Vietnamese return to their hometowns during this time. Transportation and lodging tend to be in high demand, so you may pay a higher price and have to book further in advance. Also, many businesses shut down for days to celebrate, so you may struggle to find dining options and activities open.

7. Learn a few Vietnamese phrases
Vietnamese is the main language in Vietnam and it is a tough language to learn. It is very tonal, which means that how you say it is important. There can be one word that means three different things depending on your tone and inflection.

A common question we were asked was how much English was spoken in Vietnam. The answer varies! In the larger cities, we encountered quite a few people who spoke English, but in more rural areas, little to no English was spoken.

We were able to get by just fine though! Most Vietnamese, even if they don’t speak much English, will understand key words, like “toilet,” and you can also gesture with your hands to get your point across. Google Translate also has a feature where you can speak into the phone and it’ll translate. 

While it’s unlikely you’ll become fluent in Vietnamese before your trip, we suggest learning a few common phrases. Here are some to get you started! To see even more, check out our ultimate guide to planning a trip to Vietnam.


Xin chào (Sin chow): Hello
Chào (Chow): A less formal way to say hello. Our guides told us this is more of the local way to say it.
Cảm ơn (Gam un): Thank you 
Dạ/Không (Dza/Kong): Yes/No
Xin lỗi (Sin loy):  I’m sorry
Tạm biệt (Tam biet): Goodbye
Một, Hai, Ba, YO!: 1, 2, 3, Cheers! (This is done A LOT on tours!)
8. Get a SIM card
Cell service in Vietnam was so much better than we expected. Even in remote areas of Ha Giang and Cao Bang, we still had service. It was pretty incredible! 

On previous international trips, we tried to just get by with an international plan from our cell phone provider. But this can get pretty expensive and you may be limited on data. Instead, get an eSIM from Airalo! This is a SIM that you can download to your phone. It saves the hassle of having to get a physical SIM in every country you visit! You can get an eSIM for a specific country or for an entire region, making it extra easy to use if you plan to hop between countries.

During our time in Vietnam, we got physical SIM cards and it was a hassle when we ran out of data. Now we use Airalo for our international trips and it is a much easier experience!


9. Always have cash handy
Vietnamese Dong | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam

Get the behind the scenes scoop!
Sign up to get our monthly newsletter, where we share more real time updates, the highs & lows of traveling, + any content you may have missed!

First Name
Website
Your Email...
Subscribe!
We use your personal data for interest-based advertising, as outlined in our Privacy Notice.

While some places do take credit cards, we found that many restaurants, street food stalls, public restrooms, and even homestays will only take cash.

You can find ATMs all over town and we suggest going to a bank ATM for the best rates. 

Want to avoid ATM fees? We have a Charles Schwab checking account specifically for international travel. They refund ATM fees from ANY ATM worldwide! This gave us lots of freedom to use whichever ATM was most convenient.

When we could use a credit card in Vietnam, we used one of our travel credit cards to earn points and miles for future trips. Curious which ones we use? Learn more about our favorite travel credit cards.


10. Make sure to carry toilet paper
This may be one of our most important Vietnam tips. If you don’t follow it, you may end up in a crappy situation…literally.

Make sure to carry some toilet paper (or tissue) while out and about in Vietnam. We found bathroom conditions to vary a lot. And sometimes they either did not have toilet paper or you had to pay for it.

One thing you will see in almost every bathroom, both in public and in lodging, are bum guns. These are basically spray gun bidets. While these can do the trick without toilet paper, you may want something to dry off. Don’t ask how we know…

11. Learn how to cross the street
Hanoi | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Vietnam’s streets are chaotic. There are tons of motorbikes weaving all around and a lack of crosswalks most of the time. And even if there are, crosswalks don’t always mean anything. I know this from experience when a motorbike went right through a red light and I ran into them while crossing at a crosswalk.

So one important safety tip for Vietnam is to understand how to cross the streets. Locals told us that the best way to cross the street is to just start walking. Look for a small window in traffic and walk at a consistent pace (don’t run or stop). The motorbikes will go around you. 

It seems so unnatural at first, but you will get the hang of it! Another thing to be aware of is that motorbikes sometimes will hop onto the sidewalk or pop out of alleyways. So always be alert, even when not in the actual street.

12. Use Grab instead of taxis

Grab is a rideshare app, just like Uber, and is an affordable and safe choice to get around cities in Vietnam. Unlike taxis, you can confirm the rate you’ll be charged before pickup, which reduces any scams.

The prices are so cheap for Grab that we used it a lot! We paid between $2-$5 for each ride around HCMC and Hanoi, including a tip (not required). We even used Grab to get food delivery, which is something we never do in the US because of how expensive it is.

13. Understand the tipping culture
It is not customary to tip in Vietnam. This is a weird concept coming from the US, where you tip for most services. But in Vietnam it’s not expected.

However, we did tip as much as we could. We would often give a slightly larger bill for our meal and leave the change. People seemed to really appreciate this! We also always tipped our Grab drivers, food delivery drivers, and especially our tour guides. For tour guides, we always tipped a minimum of 20%.

14. Download offline Google Translate & Maps
Even if you have a Vietnamese SIM card, make sure to download offline Google Translate and Google Maps! This will come in handy if for some reason you do not have service or if you get a small data plan. 

15. Don’t be afraid of street food
Vietnam street food | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
The #1 question we were asked by viewers while in Vietnam was “did you get sick from the food?” Street food can have a bad reputation, but it was our favorite way to eat in Vietnam! Don’t be afraid of trying street food, but make sure to read reviews and use your best judgment.

Every street food spot we visited, minus a night market in Hoi An, was researched beforehand or recommended by a local guide. We rarely ever go to places on a whim.


Get the behind the scenes scoop!
Sign up to get our monthly newsletter, where we share more real time updates, the highs & lows of traveling, + any content you may have missed!

First Name
Website
Your Email...
Subscribe!
We use your personal data for interest-based advertising, as outlined in our Privacy Notice.
Vietnam street food | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Banh Mi Vietnam | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Getting sick from food can happen anywhere in the world and even at the fanciest restaurants. Part of the food culture in Vietnam is sitting on the sidewalk in a tiny chair and at a tiny table, watching a local cook up your food right in front of you. The food is delicious and so affordable!

But to answer the #1 question, we did not get sick from the food. At least we don’t think so. We both did get sick our first week in Vietnam with a stomach bug, but we got sick days apart, so we think it may have been a virus from traveling. Besides that, we felt great!

Check out our guide to the 10+ foods to try in Vietnam (& where to get them!)

16. Only drink purified water
While we highly suggest street food, tap water is a big no no in Vietnam. It’s not safe for both locals or tourists to drink, but thankfully purified water is super easy to find.

Our only complaint is that we had to buy tons of plastic bottles and we aren’t fans of that. We traveled with a Hydro Flask bottle, but there weren’t really any places to fill it up.

17. Interact with local ethnic minorities 
Tay Ethnic Minority | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Vietnam is home to 54 different ethnic minorities. If you can, try to visit different ethnic minority villages and stay at homestays while in Vietnam. You’ll get to witness a different way of life, learn about their resourcefulness, and gain a deeper understanding of the country. These experiences were the most memorable and impactful of our trip.

Two popular areas to interact with ethnic minorities are Sapa and Ha Giang. You can arrange tours to visit different villages with a local guide, which is recommended, as they likely will not speak any English.

18. Respect the culture
Vietnam temple | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
You will likely visit a variety of cultural sites while in Vietnam. Please always make sure to follow the rules and respect the culture! When visiting temples, make sure to cover your knees and shoulders. Don’t do what I did and bring a thick cardigan (it got real hot!). Pack something lightweight instead!

19. Learn about common scams
We felt incredibly safe in Vietnam, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t scams to be aware of. Here are a few that we heard of or witnessed.

Parking Scams
This is very common in Ninh Binh. Locals will try to force you to park well before you actually need to. They will walk out right in front of your bike and try to demand that you park there and overcharge you. If this happens to you, just keep biking and ignore them.

We learned about this from reading reviews, so try to read recent reviews for places to learn about any scams!

Photo opps
You’ll often see people holding baskets with fruits, flowers, or other items while walking around. They will let you hold it and get the photo, but then try to demand money afterwards. As cool as some of these photo opportunities may be, don’t fall for it unless you want to pay.

Duplicate businesses
Some restaurants will try to copy a popular restaurant to trick people into going to them instead. These restaurants will usually all be right by each other, making it hard to know which is the true one. This can also happen with tour companies trying to trick people by using a similar name to a popular, reputable company. 

Tourist prices
We hear sometimes that restaurants will charge tourists more than locals, but I don’t think we personally experienced this. If you go to a restaurant and do not see prices, this could be a sign that they’ll try to overcharge you.

20. Prepare to haggle
Ben Thanh Market | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Ben Thanh Market | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Ahh, haggling. This is an important Vietnam tip, yet one we have not quite mastered. When shopping along the street or at markets, it is standard to haggle. The owners expect it, but for us, it’s super awkward and we aren’t sure what is too much or not enough.

We hear that shooting for 50% of what they are asking for is a good starting point. They will always come down in price and likely meet you in the middle.

One tactic we used was to not have all of our money bundled together. That way, we could play the “this is all I have” card. 

We also shopped around to see how much different shops were charging for a “Patagonia” fanny pack I wanted. This helped us get a better idea of how much we could ask off!


Get the behind the scenes scoop!
Sign up to get our monthly newsletter, where we share more real time updates, the highs & lows of traveling, + any content you may have missed!

First Name
Website
Your Email...
Subscribe!
We use your personal data for interest-based advertising, as outlined in our Privacy Notice.
21. Use WhatsApp
WhatsApp is the go-to app for communicating while in Vietnam. Many lodging and tour companies use it to book things and communicate with you. Make sure to download it in advance and give any guides your number! 

22. Download a VPN
If working remotely, you may want to download a VPN to be able to access specific websites while in Vietnam. We downloaded NordVPN while there once we realized that some websites blocked Vietnam traffic. We were able to connect to a server in the US and get access to what we needed.

23. Book tours with local guides
Ha Giang Loop | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Hands down the BEST thing we did in Vietnam was hire local guides for some experiences! Because of guided tours, we were able to experience the country’s history, eat delicious street foods, spend 3 days in caves, and motorbike all over Northern Vietnam. These guides heavily enriched our experience!

The tours we hired guides for were:

Private Cu Chi Tunnels tour
4 Day Wild Tu Lan Cave Explorer tour
Hanoi Street Food tour
6 Day Motorbike tour through Ha Giang and Cao Bang (this trip is not listed on their site, but reach out to them to book it!)
Some tools that were helpful in finding tours and activities were:

Tripadvisor: you can not only read reviews for tour activities, but you can also book them directly on Tripadvisor. And for ANY experience you book on Tripadvisor you can use our code APLUSK10 to get 10% off!
Airbnb Experiences: this is a great resource to find local guides and smaller group tours.
Klook: while we didn’t personally use Klook, we know it is popular to book activities in Asia.
24. Understand motorbike laws
Motorbiking Vietnam | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
One of our top legal travel tips for Vietnam: understand the motorbike laws.

For years we envisioned ourselves renting a motorbike and traveling around Southeast Asia. But then we learned that legally, we cannot.

Make sure to check motorbike laws for your country’s driver’s license. You will need an IDP, which is an International Driver’s Permit. However, only IDPs from countries under the 1968 Vienna Convention are legal. 

Unfortunately for US, Canadian, and Australian citizens, your IDP will not qualify. Without an IDP the only way to legally drive a motorbike without a license is to drive one 50ccs or less. This may work in cities, but it will not be powerful enough in mountainous areas.

While many people do drive motorbikes illegally, in places like Ha Giang, they are cracking down on illegal driving. You risk getting pulled over and having to pay a fine or bribe to the police or getting your bike taken away. Your health insurance will also not be valid. 

Also, whether you drive or are a passenger, helmets are required by law in Vietnam for anyone on a motorbike. So make sure to wear one! 

25. Learn about Vietnam’s history
War Remnants Museum | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam
Hoa Lo Prison Hanoi | Vietnam tips | Planning a trip to Vietnam


Last, but certainly not least, our final travel tip for Vietnam: learn about Vietnam’s history. 

Since starting our YouTube Channel, we spend many, many hours researching every place we visit. And this includes its history! While I am not really a history buff, learning more about the places we plan to visit has given us such a better understanding and appreciation while there.

Vietnam has had many pivotal moments in its history, with two more recent being French colonization and the Vietnam War (called the American War by the Vietnamese). We highly recommend learning about these before you go. For the Vietnam War, the Ken Burns PBS documentary is phenomenal and shares all perspectives of the war. 

While in Vietnam, make sure to visit the War Remnants Museum and Hoa Lo Prison.